New Rule: Non-visual location reference alternative (#832)
act-rules/act-rules.github.io: _rules/non-visual-reference-alternative-9bd38c.md

```html
	<p>Interact with the box below this paragraph, for a surprise</p>
	<button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Howdy</button>
```

#### Passed Example 3

This paragraph holds the visual reference word "right". The visual reference made by the word "right" is complemented by the non-visual reference made by the word "menu" to the content identified by the "Menu" heading.

```html
<head>
	<title>Passed example 3 9bd38c</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../test-assets/9bd38c/columns.css" />
</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p>Find the menu on the right, to navigate</p>
		</div>
		<div class="col">
			<h1>Menu</h1>
			<ul>
				<li>
					<a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/contact">Contact</a>
				</li>
				<li>
					<a href="https://www.w3.org/Help/">Help and FAQ</a>
				</li>
			</ul>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 4

This paragraph holds the visual reference word "square" but in this case it is not identifying web content.

```html
<p>A square is a regular quadrilateral with four equal sides and four right angles.</p>
```

#### Passed Example 5

> This text holds the visual reference word "tiled" and identifies web content (namely itself). But the text also includes this word "this" which makes it apparent that the description is about the same content.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This text holds the visual reference word "tilted" and identifies web content (namely itself). But the text also includes the word "this" which makes it apparent that the description is about the same content.
```

```html
<head>
	<title>Passed example 6 9bd38c</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../test-assets/9bd38c/columns.css" />
</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p>Click the round button, for a surprise</p>
		</div>
		<div class="col">
			<button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Round button</button>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 7

This parapgraph holds the visual reference words "wide" and "narrow". The images are indicated by these visual reference words. These words are also included in the accessible names of the images. Even though that indication is not visible, it is included in the accessibility tree which is sufficient to pass this rule.

```html
<p>Look at the the wide image which is awesome. Now compare it with the narrow image which isn't.</p>
<img scr="/test-assets/images/awesome_wide.jfif" alt="Wide photo of an awesome landscape." />
<img scr="/test-assets/images/Non_awesome_narrow.jpg" alt="Narrow photo of a dull landscape." />
```

#### Passed Example 8

> This paragraph hold the visual reference word "triangle" which is included in the heading of the menu; the fact that the described content is one another page of the same website does not restrict this rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This paragraph holds the visual reference word "triangle" which is included in the heading of the menu; the fact that the described content is on another page of the same website does not restrict this rule.
```

```html
<p>
	On the <a href="/test-assets/SC1.3.3-triangle-menu-with-heading.html">information page</a> you can find more examples
	within the triangle menu.
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 9

> This paragraph hold the visual reference word "star" but there is also a heading "examples" that can be referenced; the fact that the identified content is in an iframe does not restrict this rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This paragraph holds the visual reference word "star" but there is also a heading "examples" that can be referenced; the fact that the identified content is in an iframe does not restrict this rule.
```

```html
<p>More examples can be found when you look underneath the star or you can search for the "Examples" heading</p>
<iframe src="/test-assets/SC1.3.3-star-with-heading.html"></iframe>
```

#### Passed Example 10

This parapgraph holds the visual reference word "circle" but in this case it is no instruction so it passes.

```html
<p>
	This circle is nice.
	<span style="height: 25px;
		     width: 25px;
		     background-color: #bbb;
		     border-radius: 50%;
		     display: inline-block;">
	</span>
</p>
```

> #### Passed Example 11

Reviewer 2: Maybe use another example (howdy button, …) for Passed Examples 11 and 12.
They are not related to the the visual reference not being an instruction, so it's probably better to use the "vanilla" case.

> This parapgraph holds the visual reference word "circle" but in this case it is no instruction so it passes. Note that this example is not inapplicable because, despite the fact that the text is not visible, it is included in the accessibility tree.

Reviewer 2: Maybe make only the text not visible (not the circle, i.e. the content it refers to) to emphasize that it's even if the circle is visible, the visual location doesn't need to be.

```html
<p style="position:absolute; top:-9999em">
	This circle is nice.
	<span style="height: 25px;
		     width: 25px;
		     background-color: #bbb;
		     border-radius: 50%;
		     display: inline-block;">
	</span>
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 12

This parapgraph holds the visual reference word "circle" but in this case it is no instruction so it passes. Note that this example is not inapplicable because, despite the fact that the text is not in the accessibility tree, it is visible.

```html
<p aria-hidden="true">

> 	This circle is nice.

Reviewer 2: Maybe make only the text not in the accessibility tree (not the circle, i.e. the content it refers to) to emphasize that it's even if the circle is accessible, the visual location doesn't need to be.

	<span style="height: 25px;
		     width: 25px;
		     background-color: #bbb;
		     border-radius: 50%;
		     display: inline-block;">
	</span>
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 13

> This parapgraph holds the visual reference word "right". The user is told to find the navigation on the right and the navigation is also correctly identified by a `nav` element.

Reviewer 2: Technically, the rule says nothing about being in a correct landmark or stuff. I guess the point here is that the accessible name of a `nav` is going to be "Navigation".

Note that this also relates to what I say on Passed Example 7. I am not sure this example actually passes the rule:
* The test target is not on the same page as textual instruction with non-visual characteristic.
* The target is part of instruction about the web content.
* The visual reference word "right" is not visible in the navigation.

I guess this passes the rule because you consider that the word "navigation" is "textual instruction with non-visual characteristic" for a `nav` element?
How would that be stretch to the limits? (trying to figure out sort of a definition for this) Is navigation a "textual instruction with non-visual characteristic" for
* a `div role="navigation"`?
* a list of links (just `ul`, no special role)? (that example would look exactly the same for sighted users if the `nav` tags are removed)

Reviewer 3: > Technically, the rule says nothing about being in a correct landmark or stuff. I guess the point here is that the accessible name of a `nav` is going to be "Navigation".
>
That's my interpretation too. The role would be navigation, and it would be announced as such.

> Note that this also relates to what I say on Passed Example 7. I am not sure this example actually passes the rule:
> 
> * The test target is not on the same page as textual instruction with non-visual characteristic.

Is the test target the link or the page it takes you to?

> * The target is part of instruction about the web content.
> * The visual reference word "right" is not visible in the navigation.
> 
> I guess this passes the rule because you consider that the word "navigation" is "textual instruction with non-visual characteristic" for a `nav` element?

Screen readers that I know of identify `nav` and they speak "navigation" instead of "nav", and then they complement that role announcement with the contents of the `nav`'s accessible name. So Instead of:

> ... the navigation is also correctly identified by a `nav` element.

We could have:

> ... screen readers will announce the navigation because of the `nav` element.

> How would that be stretch to the limits? (trying to figure out sort of a definition for this) Is navigation a "textual instruction with non-visual characteristic" for
> 
> * a `div role="navigation"`?
> * a list of links (just `ul`, no special role)? (that example would look exactly the same for sighted users if the `nav` tags are removed)

But you would not have the "navigation" announcement, as you would if you had role navigation.

```html
<head>
	<title>Passed example 13 9bd38c</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../test-assets/9bd38c/columns.css" />
</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p>Find the navigation on the right, for the non-essential links</p>
		</div>
		<nav>
			<div class="col">
				<ul>
					<li>
						<a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/contact">Contact</a>
					</li>
					<li>
						<a href="https://www.w3.org/Help/">Help and FAQ</a>
					</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</nav>
	</div>
</body>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

> This parapgraph holds the visual reference word "right". The user is told to find the menu on the right but the menu is not identified in any other way.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This paragraph holds the visual reference word "right". The user is told to find the menu on the right but the menu is not identified in any other way.
```

```html
<head>
	<title>Failed example 1 9bd38c</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../test-assets/9bd38c/columns.css" />
</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p>Find the menu on the right, to navigate</p>
		</div>
		<div class="col">
			<ul>
				<li>
					<a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/contact">Contact</a>
				</li>
				<li>
					<a href="https://www.w3.org/Help/">Help and FAQ</a>
				</li>
			</ul>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Failed Example 2

> This parapgraph holds the visual reference word "right". The user is told to find the navigation on the right and the navigation is correctly identified by a `nav` element, but there are 2 `nav` elements on the page so the user doesn't know which one to use.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This paragraph holds the visual reference word "right". The user is told to find the navigation on the right and the navigation is correctly identified by a `nav` element, but there are 2 `nav` elements on the page so the user doesn't know which one to use.
```

```html
<head>
	<title>Failed example 2 9bd38c</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../test-assets/9bd38c/columns.css" />
</head>
<body>
	<nav>
		<ul>
			<li>
				<a href="https://www.w3.org/">W3C homepage</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="https://www.w3.org/standards/">Standards</a>
			</li>
		</ul>
	</nav>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p>Find the navigation on the right, for the non-essential links</p>
		</div>
		<nav>
			<div class="col">
				<ul>
					<li>
						<a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/contact">Contact</a>
					</li>
					<li>
						<a href="https://www.w3.org/Help/">Help and FAQ</a>
					</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</nav>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Failed Example 3

> This parapgraph holds the visual reference word "triangle" and no other indication is present so the rule fails. The fact that the triangle menu is on a different page of the same website does not restrict the rule. 

Reviewer 2: Maybe add that the word "triangle" is **not** present on the destination page (to emphasise difference with Passed Example 8, given that they only differ in the destination of the link it might be a bit hard to see it at first).

> This parapgraph holds the visual reference word "triangle" and no other indication is present so the rule fails. The fact that the triangle menu is on a different page of the same website does not restrict the rule. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This paragraph holds the visual reference word "triangle" and no other indication is present so the rule fails. The fact that the triangle menu is on a different page of the same website does not restrict the rule. 
```

```html
<body>
	<p>
		On the <a href="/test-assets/SC1.3.3-triangle-menu-without-heading.html">information page</a> you can find more
		examples within the triangle menu
	</p>
</body>
```

#### Failed Example 4

> This parapgraph holds the visual reference word "star" and there is no other indication. The content described is in an iframe.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This paragraph holds the visual reference word "star" and there is no other indication. The content described is in an `iframe`.
```

> This parapgraph holds the visual reference word "star" and there is no other indication. The content described is in an iframe.

Reviewer 2: Same, say that there is no word "star" in the inlined content.

---
id: 9bd38c
name: Non-visual reference alternative
rule_type: atomic
description: |
  This rule checks that when there is a visual reference of content, there are also non-visual indicators of the location.
accessibility_requirements:
  wcag20:1.3.1: # Info and Relationships (A)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
  wcag20:1.3.3: # Sensory Characteristics (A)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
  wcag-technique:G96: # Providing textual identification of items that otherwise rely only on sensory information to be understood.

>     forConformance: true

Reviewer 2: @WilcoFiers pointed out that techniques are not required for conformance:
https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/pull/1014#discussion_r344633847

Reviewer 2: (and after talking with @kasperisager and checking the ACT rules format, I actually disagree… https://github.com/act-rules/act-rules.github.io/pull/1014#discussion_r346227590)

Reviewer 2: We got to talk with @WilcoFiers and @kasperisager today and agreed that `forConformance: false` is the correct thing to have for techniques.

Author: Done! Thanks!

    failed: not satisfied

>     passed: further testing needed

Reviewer 2: Note: as far as I understand the current code, this is currently ignored when building the website.
@jkodu can you confirm or infirm?

I like mapping to techniques, but that will require website code update to work.

Reviewer 2: I will be updating website code soonish. So go on with this, it should work by the time this PR is merged 😄

>     passed: further testing needed

Author: This rule only checks HTML. And G96 is a general technique that applies to all technologies. So you can have a situation where this rule passes (because all the HTML checks out) but on the same page you have an embedded PDF or something that fails this technique.

    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  -  DOM Tree
  -  Language
acknowledgements:
  authors:
    -  Brian Bors
    -  Daniël Strik
    -  Wilco Fiers
---

## Applicability

> Any text node that includes one of the [visual reference words](#visual-reference-words), that is [visible](#visible) or [included in the accessibility tree](#included-in-the-accessibility-tree)

Author: It doesn't matter either way. Both interpretations are correct.

## Expectation

> Each target that describes any [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) through the use of the [visual reference words](#visual-reference-words), is included in a [section of the content](#section-of-content) that also describes that [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) by a non-visual property, except if the target is not part of an instruction about [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) or the visual reference word is included in the described content.

Author: "describes" is inherently subjective. This makes it impossible to put this in the applicability of the rule.

> Each target that describes any [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) through the use of the [visual reference words](#visual-reference-words), is included in a [section of the content](#section-of-content) that also describes that [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) by a non-visual property, except if the target is not part of an instruction about [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) or the visual reference word is included in the described content.

Author: I think you mean that you would like to streamline them into the applicability?

If so, we cannot do this because of the reason mentioned above. "Describes" is inherently subjective.

> Each target that describes any [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) through the use of the [visual reference words](#visual-reference-words), is included in a [section of the content](#section-of-content) that also describes that [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) by a non-visual property, except if the target is not part of an instruction about [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) or the visual reference word is included in the described content.

Author: We do not have such examples. This is indeed a duplication!

> Each target that describes any [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) through the use of the [visual reference words](#visual-reference-words), is included in a [section of the content](#section-of-content) that also describes that [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) by a non-visual property, except if the target is not part of an instruction about [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) or the visual reference word is included in the described content.

Author: Thank you for the questions:

- Describes is indeed subjective, but not ambiguous. A text alternative describes an image for example. There is a duplication in the expectation that we shall fix (see reply above).
- See the note below. We will add website.
- This is the duplication that we shall remove.
- We will rename this to a "text instruction" (because we are only talking about text nodes)
- All of the above. This is mentioned in the definition of web content.

> Each target that describes any [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) through the use of the [visual reference words](#visual-reference-words), is included in a [section of the content](#section-of-content) that also describes that [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) by a non-visual property, except if the target is not part of an instruction about [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) or the visual reference word is included in the described content.

Reviewer 2: Agreed.

> Each target that describes any [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) through the use of the [visual reference words](#visual-reference-words), is included in a [section of the content](#section-of-content) that also describes that [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) by a non-visual property, except if the target is not part of an instruction about [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) or the visual reference word is included in the described content.

Reviewer 2: No, I really meant "in the expectation".
```suggestion
Each target that describes any [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) through the use of the [visual reference words](#visual-reference-words) either:
- is included in a [section of the content](#section-of-content) that also describes that [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) by a non-visual property; or
- is not part of an instruction about [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content); or
- has the visual reference word included in the described content.
```
I think that is easier to read and mentally parse, and avoid making the exceptions stand out with the word "except".

> Each target that describes any [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) through the use of the [visual reference words](#visual-reference-words), is included in a [section of the content](#section-of-content) that also describes that [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) by a non-visual property, except if the target is not part of an instruction about [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) or the visual reference word is included in the described content.

Author: We added the two exceptions in a list. Thanks for thinking along.

> Each target that describes any [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) through the use of the [visual reference words](#visual-reference-words), is included in a [section of the content](#section-of-content) that also describes that [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) by a non-visual property, except if the target is not part of an instruction about [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) or the visual reference word is included in the described content.

Author: There are no examples of instructions of web content that are not also descriptions of the web content.  But there are examples of descriptions of web content that are not instructions. We will be adding those and clearing up any examples that would pass on both these accounts.

**Note**: The expectation doesn't mention the fact that the non-visual property description should be visible and included in the accessibility tree. This rule can be passed with alternatives that are not visible or alternatives that are not included in the accessibility tree. Those sorts of content would fail other SC.

> **Note**: The described web content does not have to be positioned on the same web page.

Author: We will expand this note to include any web content anywhere, linked-to/referenced or not.

## Assumptions

The rule assumes that instructions are fully included within a single section of content. If an instruction takes up multiple sections of the content, having a sensory characteristic in one section, and a non-sensory characteristic in another is assumed to be too disconnected to satisfy the success criterion. 

> The rule assumes that visual reference words are forms of information conveyed through presentation, because of this, failing this rule fails both [Info and Relationships](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#info-and-relationships) and [Sensory Characteristics](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#sensory-characteristics). Presentation is not limited to CSS and includes images such as the image of a circle with text.

Author: The technique is not complete and should mention 1.3.1 in our opinion. Do you disagree that the use of visual reference words that refer things are forms of information conveyed through presentation.

For example: A green button where the green colour is mentioned in an instruction on how to submit a form. The green colour is information conveyed trough presentation.

> The rule assumes that visual reference words are forms of information conveyed through presentation, because of this, failing this rule fails both [Info and Relationships](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#info-and-relationships) and [Sensory Characteristics](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#sensory-characteristics). Presentation is not limited to CSS and includes images such as the image of a circle with text.

Reviewer 2: Fair enough.

If we think that G96/1.3.1 should be linked but are not, we probably want to escalate an issue to WCAG.

- [WCAG 2.1 - Understanding Success Criterion 1.3.3: Sensory Characteristics](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/sensory-characteristics.html)

### Related WCAG Techniques

- [G96: Providing textual identification of items that otherwise rely only on sensory information to be understood](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/general/G96)
- [F14: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.3 due to identifying content only by its shape or location](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/failures/F14)
- [F26: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.3 due to using a graphical symbol alone to convey information](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/failures/F26)

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

The content in the second column is indicated with the word "right" (which is an indicator based on visual perception) but also indicated by referencing the word "howdy".

```html
<head>
	<title>Passed example 1 9bd38c</title>
	<style>
	.col-container {
		display: table;
		width: 100%;
	}
	.col {
		display: table-cell;
		padding: 16px;
	}

> 	</style>

Author: Examples should be self containing wherever possible.

> 	</style>

Reviewer 2: Duplicating shared code hampers readability a lot. In this case, I do spend a bit of mental time on each `style`  block figuring out what it does and whether it is different from the others or not. This is taking away the focus from the things that are actually different and that the examples are illustrating.

> 	</style>

Author: I agree with you on this. I shall escalate this to Wilco on friday.

> 	</style>

Author: Discussed this with Wilco today. I will put this in separate test asset!

</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p>Click "howdy" on the right, for a surprise</p>
		</div>
		<div class="col">
			<button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Howdy</button>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 2

> The button in the second column is indicated with the word "box" (which is a location indicator based on visual perception) but also indicated by referencing that the content can be found below this content in the DOM order. Note that "below" is also a visual reference word but in this case it can also be accurately interpreted as "next in the DOM order" which does not rely on visual attributes alone.

Author: "further" is indeed better.
And we will make the third assumption also talk about DOM order.

```html
<div class="col-container">
  <div class="col">
    <p>Interact with the box below this paragraph, for a surprise</p>
  </div>

  <div class="col">
    <button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Howdy</button>
  </div>
</div>
```

> #### Passed Example 3

Author: Because the situation is rather different. In one the word is included in the button itself. In the other the word is a heading above the content being referenced.

> The visual reference made by the word "right" is complemented by the non-visual reference made by the word "menu" to the content identified by the "Menu" heading.

Author: This is a good point. We will fix this by stating that the non-visual property should identify(!) rather than describe the web content.

```html
<head>
	<title>Passed example 3 9bd38c</title>
	<style>
	.col-container {
		display: table;
		width: 100%;
	}
	.col {
		display: table-cell;
		padding: 16px;
	}
	</style>
</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p>Find the menu on the right, to navigate</p>
		</div>
		<div class="col">
			<h1>Menu</h1>
			<ul>
				<li>
					<a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/contact">Contact</a>
				</li>
				<li>
					<a href="https://www.w3.org/Help/">Help and FAQ</a>
				</li>
			</ul>
					
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 4

This document is using the word "square" but in this case it is not an instruction about web content. In fact it is not even a reference of a shape in this case.

```html
	<p>In mathemathics a square is the result of multiplying a number by itself.</p>
```

#### Passed Example 5

> The following text is tilted and describes web content. But the block of content also includes this word "this" which makes it apparent that the description is about the same block of content.

Author: We shall make this part of an instruction.

<div class="tilt">Text can be tilted</div> would indeed pass this rule because it is not part of an instruction.

> The following text is tilted and describes web content. But the block of content also includes this word "this" which makes it apparent that the description is about the same block of content.

Author: It should be section of content. Thanks!

```html
<head>
	<title>Passed example 5 9bd38c</title>
	<style> 
		div.tilt {
			height: 750px;
			width: 150px;
			-ms-transform: rotate(20deg); /* IE 9 */
			-webkit-transform: rotate(20deg); /* Safari 3-8 */
			transform: rotate(20deg);
			}
	</style>
</head>
<body>
	<div class="tilt">This text is tilted.</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 6

> The button is indicated by the word "round". But the word is also included in the text of the element.

Author: No, it should specifically identify `that` web content. So it would fail.

```html
<head>
	<title>Passed example 6 9bd38c</title>
	<style>
	.col-container {
		display: table;
		width: 100%;
	}
	.col {
		display: table-cell;
		padding: 16px;
	}
	</style>
</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p>Click the round button, for a surprise</p>
		</div>
		<div class="col">
			<button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Round button</button>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 7

> The images are indicated by the visual indicator words "narrow" and "wide". These words are also included in the accessible names of the images. Even through that indication is not visible, it is included in the accessibility tree which is sufficient to pass this rule.

Author: This is now irrelevant seeing as we changed the expectation.

```html
	<p>The wide image is awesome. But the narrow image isn't.</p>
	<img scr="/test-assets/images/awesome_wide.jfif" alt="Wide photo of an awesome landscape.">
	<img scr="/test-assets/images/Non_awesome_narrow.jpg" alt="Narrow photo of a dull landscape.">
```

#### Passed Example 8

This document is using the word "triangle" but in this case the triangle menu is on a different page and has a heading "triangle menu".

```html
	<p>On the <a href="/test-assets/SC1.3.3-triangle-menu-with-heading.html">information page</a> you can find more examples within the triangle menu</p>
```

#### Passed Example 9

This document is using the word "star" but in this case the star is in an 'iframe' and has a heading "examples".

```html
<p>More examples can be found when you look underneath the star or you can search for the "Examples" heading</p>
<iframe src="/test-assets/SC1.3.3-star-with-heading.html"></iframe>
```

#### Passed Example 10

> This document is using the word "circle" but in this case it is no instruction. Also note that the text is not visible, but still applicable.

Author: I described this more clearly now and also added an example that passes based on it being "not an instruction."

```html
	<p style="position: absolute;
  width: 1px;
  height: 1px;
  padding: 0;
  margin: -1px;
  overflow: hidden;
  clip: rect(0,0,0,0);
  border: 0;">A circle is nice.</p>
```

#### Passed Example 11

This document is using the word "circle" but in this case it is no instruction. Also note that the text is not included in the accessibility tree, but still applicable.

```html
	<p aria-hidden="true">A circle is nice.</p>
```

### Failed

#### Failed Example 1

The user is told to find the menu on the right (which is a visual indicator word) but the menu is not identified in any way.

```html
<head>
	<title>Failed example 1 9bd38c</title>
	<style>
	.col-container {
		display: table;
		width: 100%;
	}
	.col {
		display: table-cell;
		padding: 16px;
	}
	</style>
</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p>Find the menu on the right, to navigate</p>
		</div>
		<div class="col">
			<ul>
				<li>
					<a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/contact">Contact</a>
				</li>
				<li>
					<a href="https://www.w3.org/Help/">Help and FAQ</a>

> 				</li>

Author: Lists with only one item is somewhat silly as you would not need a list. We are leaving it as it is for now.

			</ul>
					
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Failed Example 2

> The user is told to find the navigation on the right (which is a visual indicator word) and the navigation has a navigation element, but there are 2 navigation elements on the page so the user doesn't know which one to use.

Author: I would say yes. It is also described in a non-visual property which is supported by assistive technologies. I have added a passed example to reflect this.

```html
<head>
	<title>Failed example 2 9bd38c</title>
	<style>
	.col-container {
		display: table;
		width: 100%;
	}
	.col {
		display: table-cell;
		padding: 16px;
	}
	</style>
</head>
<body>
	<nav>
		<ul>
			<li>
				<a href="https://www.w3.org/">W3C homepage</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="https://www.w3.org/standards/">Standards</a>
			</li>
		</ul>
	</nav>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p>Find the navigation on the right, for the non-essential links</p>
		</div>
		<nav>
			<div class="col">
				<ul>
					<li>
						<a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/contact">Contact</a>
					</li>
					<li>
						<a href="https://www.w3.org/Help/">Help and FAQ</a>
					</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</nav>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Failed Example 3

> The button is indicated with the word "box" (which is a shape indicator based on visual perception) and is also indicated by referencing the word "howdy", but the word "howdy" is in a different paragraph than the word "box".

Reviewer: The definition of section of content does not preclude different paragraphs from being in the same section of content, so it is not clear that this is a fail. Probably the definition of section of content needs to be updated...

Author: This example has been removed.

> The button is indicated with the word "box" (which is a shape indicator based on visual perception) and is also indicated by referencing the word "howdy", but the word "howdy" is in a different paragraph than the word "box".

Author: This example was removed.

```html
<p>Click the box, for a surprise!</p>
<p>If you can't find the box here is a hint: it says "Howdy"!</p>
<button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Howdy</button>
```

#### Failed Example 4

This document is using the word "triangle" and the triangle menu is on a different page. No other indication is present.

```html
<body>
	<p>On the <a href="/test-assets/SC1.3.3-triangle-menu-without-heading.html">information page</a> you can find more examples within the triangle menu</p>
</body>
```

#### Failed Example 5

This document is using the word "star" and there is no other indication. The content described is in an iframe.

```html
<body>
<p>More examples can be found when you look underneath the star</p>
<iframe src="/test-assets/SC1.3.3-star-without-heading.html"></iframe>
</body>
```

### Inapplicable

#### Inapplicable Example 1

> The content is indicated with the word "button" which is not a visual reference word.

Author: Changed the wording.

```html
<p>Click the button, for a surprise</p>

> <button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Howdy</button>

Author: We want to keep the examples as small as possible seeing as how there are so many of them. It doesn't really matter whether or not the button is on the right for this example to be inapplicable and adding the usual styling might convince/confuse people that it is.

```

#### Inapplicable Example 2

> The content in the second column is indicated with the word "box", but this indication is hidden with 'display:none'.

Author: This has all been incorporated.

description: |
  This rule checks that when content is identified through a visual reference, there are also non-visual references identifying the same content.
accessibility_requirements:
  wcag20:1.3.1: # Info and Relationships (A)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
  wcag20:1.3.3: # Sensory Characteristics (A)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
  wcag-technique:G96: # Providing textual identification of items that otherwise rely only on sensory information to be understood.
    forConformance: false
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - DOM Tree
  - Language
acknowledgements:
  authors:
    - Brian Bors
    - Daniël Strik
    - Wilco Fiers
---

## Applicability

Any [text node](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#text) that includes one of the [visual reference words](#visual-reference-words), that is [visible](#visible) or [included in the accessibility tree](#included-in-the-accessibility-tree)

## Expectation

> Each test target that describes any [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) on this website, through the use of the [visual reference words](#visual-reference-words), is on the same [web page](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-web-page-s) with a [textual](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-text) instruction that also identifies that [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) by a non-visual characteristic, except if:

Author: I am afraid we can't do this. Because you can use visual reference words to describe something by a non-visual characteristic. For example "below" can be used to describe "below this content in the dom-order" which is not a visual characteristic.

> Each test target that describes any [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) on this website, through the use of the [visual reference words](#visual-reference-words), is on the same [web page](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-web-page-s) with a [textual](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-text) instruction that also identifies that [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) by a non-visual characteristic, except if:

Reviewer: My ambiguity concern comes from "characteristic". What exactly is considered a characteristic?

> Each test target that describes any [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) on this website, through the use of the [visual reference words](#visual-reference-words), is on the same [web page](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-web-page-s) with a [textual](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-text) instruction that also identifies that [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) by a non-visual characteristic, except if:

Author: 1. I changed described to identified. Thanks.

2. What is ambiguous about "information and sensory experience to be communicated to the user"?

> Each test target that describes any [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) on this website, through the use of the [visual reference words](#visual-reference-words), is on the same [web page](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-web-page-s) with a [textual](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-text) instruction that also identifies that [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) by a non-visual characteristic, except if:

Reviewer: 2 - As I wrote originally, I'm not sure it is. But this is the kind of phrasing in WCAG definitions that Wilco tends to flag as ambiguous when I use them in ACT rules :-)

> Each test target that describes any [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) on this website, through the use of the [visual reference words](#visual-reference-words), is on the same [web page](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-web-page-s) with a [textual](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-text) instruction that also identifies that [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) by a non-visual characteristic, except if:

Author: Anything really. XD

Would "property" be better in your opinion?

> Each test target that describes any [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) on this website, through the use of the [visual reference words](#visual-reference-words), is on the same [web page](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-web-page-s) with a [textual](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-text) instruction that also identifies that [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) by a non-visual characteristic, except if:

Author: It is certainly subjective sometimes, as it depends on the intention of the author (whether or not they intended to communicate it), but I don't think it is ambiguous. If the author wanted to communicate it, is is "to be communicated" to the user.

I'll leave it in unless @WilcoFiers or anyone else objects to it. :)

> Each test target that describes any [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) on this website, through the use of the [visual reference words](#visual-reference-words), is on the same [web page](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-web-page-s) with a [textual](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-text) instruction that also identifies that [web content](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-content) by a non-visual characteristic, except if:

Reviewer: No, I don't think "property" is better. Let's leave it as it is.

## Accessibility Support

_There are no major accessibility support issues known for this rule._

## Background

### Understanding WCAG

- [WCAG 2.1 - Understanding Success Criterion 1.3.1: Info and Relationships](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/info-and-relationships.html)
- [WCAG 2.1 - Understanding Success Criterion 1.3.3: Sensory Characteristics](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Understanding/sensory-characteristics.html)

### Related WCAG Techniques

- [G96: Providing textual identification of items that otherwise rely only on sensory information to be understood](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/general/G96)
- [F14: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.3 due to identifying content only by its shape or location](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/failures/F14)
- [F26: Failure of Success Criterion 1.3.3 due to using a graphical symbol alone to convey information](https://www.w3.org/WAI/WCAG21/Techniques/failures/F26)

> ## Test Cases

Reviewer: Example descriptions need to be updated to our current format. They should start with "This [identify the test target] ..."
Most have not reference to the test target or reference an incorrect test target (e.g. document).

```html
<head>
	<title>Passed example 5 9bd38c</title>
	<style>
		div.tilt {
			height: 750px;
			width: 150px;
			-ms-transform: rotate(20deg); /* IE 9 */
			-webkit-transform: rotate(20deg); /* Safari 3-8 */
			transform: rotate(20deg);
		}
	</style>
</head>
<body>
	<div class="tilt">look at this pieCe of tiLted text fOr clueS on whEre to find The monster.</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 6

The button is indicated by the word "round". But the word is also included in the text of the element.

```html
<head>
	<title>Passed example 6 9bd38c</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../test-assets/9bd38c/columns.css" />
</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p>Click the round button, for a surprise</p>
		</div>
		<div class="col">
			<button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Round button</button>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 7

The images are indicated by the visual indicator words "narrow" and "wide". These words are also included in the accessible names of the images. Even through that indication is not visible, it is included in the accessibility tree which is sufficient to pass this rule.

```html

> <p>The wide image is awesome. But the narrow image isn't.</p>

Reviewer: These are not instructions (similar to the passed example 10), so the description should be updated to reflect that.

If you think they are part of instructions, then you need to review the expectation, because then instructions is ambiguous.

<img scr="/test-assets/images/Non_awesome_narrow.jpg" alt="Narrow photo of a dull landscape." />
```

#### Passed Example 8

This document is using "triangle" which is included in the heading of the menu; the fact that the described content is one another page does not restrict this rule.

```html
<p>
	On the <a href="/test-assets/SC1.3.3-triangle-menu-with-heading.html">information page</a> you can find more examples
	within the triangle menu
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 9

This document is using "star" but there is also a heading "examples" that can be referenced; the fact that the described content is in an iframe does not restrict this rule.

```html
<p>More examples can be found when you look underneath the star or you can search for the "Examples" heading</p>
<iframe src="/test-assets/SC1.3.3-star-with-heading.html"></iframe>
```

#### Passed Example 10

This document is using the word "circle" but in this case it is no instruction so it passes.

```html
<p>
	This circle is nice.
	<span style="height: 25px;
		     width: 25px;
		     background-color: #bbb;
		     border-radius: 50%;
		     display: inline-block;">
	</span>
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 11

> This document is using the word "circle" but in this case it is no instruction so it passes. Note that this example is not inapplicable despite the fact that the text is not visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document is using the word "circle" but in this case it is no instruction so it passes. Note that this example is not inapplicable because, despite the fact that the text is not visible, it is included in the accessibility tree.
```

```html
<p style="position:absolute; top:-9999em">
	This circle is nice.
	<span style="height: 25px;
		     width: 25px;
		     background-color: #bbb;
		     border-radius: 50%;
		     display: inline-block;">
	</span>
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 12

> This document is using the word "circle" but in this case it is no instruction so it passes. Note that this example is not inapplicable despite the fact that the text is not in the accessibility tree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document is using the word "circle" but in this case it is no instruction so it passes. Note that this example is not inapplicable because, despite the fact that the text is not in the accessibility tree, it is visible.
```

```html
<p aria-hidden="true">
	This circle is nice.
	<span style="height: 25px;
		     width: 25px;
		     background-color: #bbb;
		     border-radius: 50%;
		     display: inline-block;">
	</span>
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 13

The user is told to find the navigation on the right (a visual reference word) and the navigation is correctly identified by a `nav` element.

```html
<head>

> 	<title>Failed example 13 9bd38c</title>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
	<title>Passed example 13 9bd38c</title>
```

			<ul>
				<li>
					<a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/contact">Contact</a>
				</li>
				<li>
					<a href="https://www.w3.org/Help/">Help and FAQ</a>
				</li>
			</ul>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Failed Example 2

The user is told to find the navigation on the right (a visual reference word) and the navigation is correctly identified by a `nav` element, but there are 2 `nav` elements on the page so the user doesn't know which one to use.

```html
<head>
	<title>Failed example 2 9bd38c</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../test-assets/9bd38c/columns.css" />
</head>
<body>
	<nav>
		<ul>
			<li>
				<a href="https://www.w3.org/">W3C homepage</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="https://www.w3.org/standards/">Standards</a>
			</li>
		</ul>
	</nav>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p>Find the navigation on the right, for the non-essential links</p>
		</div>
		<nav>
			<div class="col">
				<ul>
					<li>
						<a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/contact">Contact</a>
					</li>
					<li>
						<a href="https://www.w3.org/Help/">Help and FAQ</a>
					</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</nav>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Failed Example 3

> This document is using the word "triangle" and no other indication is present so the rule fails. The fact that the triangle menu is on a different page does not restrict the rule. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This document is using the word "triangle" and no other indication is present so the rule fails. The fact that the triangle menu is on a different page of the same website does not restrict the rule. 
```

```html
<body>
	<p>
		On the <a href="/test-assets/SC1.3.3-triangle-menu-without-heading.html">information page</a> you can find more
		examples within the triangle menu
	</p>
</body>
```

#### Failed Example 4

This document is using the word "star" and there is no other indication. The content described is in an iframe.

```html
<body>
	<p>More examples can be found when you look underneath the star</p>
	<iframe src="/test-assets/SC1.3.3-star-without-heading.html"></iframe>
</body>
```

### Inapplicable

#### Inapplicable Example 1

There is no visual reference word on the page.

```html
<p>Click the button, for a surprise</p>
<button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Howdy</button>
```

#### Inapplicable Example 2

> The content is indicated with the word "box" (a visual reference word), but this indication is hidden and not included in the accessibility three because it has 'display:none'.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The content is indicated with the word "box" (a visual reference word), but this indication is hidden and not included in the accessibility tree because it has 'display:none'.
```

accessibility_requirements:
  wcag20:1.3.1: # Info and Relationships (A)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
  wcag20:1.3.3: # Sensory Characteristics (A)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
  wcag-technique:G96: # Providing textual identification of items that otherwise rely only on sensory information to be understood.
    forConformance: false
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - Accessibility Tree
  - CSS Styling
  - DOM Tree
  - Language
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Brian Bors
    - Daniël Strik
    - Jean-Yves Moyen
    - Wilco Fiers
---

## Applicability

This rule applies to any [text node][] that is either [visible][] or [included in the accessibility tree][].

## Expectation

For each test target that includes at least one of the [visual reference words][], one of the following is true:

> - (**non-visual reference**) the test target is on the same [web page][] as a [textual][text] instruction that also identifies that [web content][] by a non-visual characteristic; or

Reviewer: It's not clear to what "that web content" refers to (and this also applies to the other items in the list).

Ideally, the introductory sentence would specify what the visual reference words are used for (i.e. identify web content). But that is not possible because of the last 2 options (which do not identify content). Suggestion:

```suggestion
- (**non-visual reference**) the test target is on the same [web page][] as a [textual][text] instruction that identifies by a non-visual characteristic the same [web content][] identified by the test target; or
```

Reviewer 2: Good catch. Fixing it a bit differently.
Moving "no indication" first, and frontloading "the test target gives indication" in each other item.

> - (**visible words**) each [visual reference word][] in the test target is included in the [visible text content][] of the identified content; or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (**visible words**) each [visual reference word][] in the test target is included in the [visible text content][] of the [web content][] identified by the test target; or
```

> - (**accessible words**) each [visual reference word][] in the test target is included in the [accessible name][] of the identified content; or

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (**accessible words**) each [visual reference word][] in the test target is included in the [accessible name][] of the [web content][] identified by the test target; or
```

- (**no indication**) the test target does not identify any [web content][] through the use of any [visual reference words][]; or
- (**no instruction**) the test target does not give instructions about any [web content][] through the use of any of the [visual reference words][].

## Assumptions

> - This rule assumes that [visual reference words][] are forms of information conveyed through presentation, because of this, failing this rule fails both [Success Criterion 1.3.1 Info and Relationships][sc131] and [Success Criterion 1.3.3 Sensory Characteristics][sc133]. Presentation is not limited to CSS and includes images such as the image of a circle with text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This rule assumes that [visual reference words][] are forms of information conveyed through presentation. Because of this, failing this rule fails both [Success Criterion 1.3.1 Info and Relationships][sc131] and [Success Criterion 1.3.3 Sensory Characteristics][sc133]. Presentation is not limited to CSS and includes images such as the image of a circle with text.
```

> - This rule assumes that non-visual users will interpret some visual reference words as meaning "ahead" or "backwards" in the reading order. For example in most contexts "see the content below" will mean ahead in the DOM tree reading order which is not a visual reference and should pass this test. Note however that the DOM tree reading order can be different from the visual order of things, which could result in "see the content below" only referring to the visual order of things in which case it is not a correct reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This rule assumes that non-visual users will interpret some visual reference words as meaning "ahead" or "backwards" in the reading order. For example in most contexts "see the content below" will mean ahead in the DOM tree reading order which is not a visual reference and should pass this test. Note, however, that the DOM tree reading order can be different from the visual order of things, which could result in "see the content below" only referring to the visual order of things in which case it is not a correct reference.
```

- This rule assumes that the language of each test target can be correctly determined (either programmatically or by analyzing the content), and sufficiently understood.

## Accessibility Support

_There are no major accessibility support issues known for this rule._

## Background

> The rule doesn't require the non-visual characteristic description to be included in the accessibility tree. If the alternatives are not included in the accessibility tree, only [Success Criteria 1.3.1 Info and Relationships][sc131] would fail instead of both [Success Criterion 1.3.3 Sensory Characteristics][sc133] and [1.3.1][sc131]. Hence, the rule passes in these cases as it is not a failure of all accessibility requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The rule doesn't require the non-visual characteristic description to be included in the accessibility tree. If the alternatives are not included in the accessibility tree, only [Success Criteria 1.3.1 Info and Relationships][sc131] would fail instead of both [Success Criterion 1.3.3 Sensory Characteristics][sc133] and [Success Criteria 1.3.1 Info and Relationships][sc131]. Hence, the rule passes in these cases as it is not a failure of all accessibility requirements.
```

<button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Howdy</button>
```

#### Passed Example 3

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "right". The visual reference made by the word "right" is complemented by the non-visual reference made by the word "menu" to the content identified by the "Menu" heading, thus matching the (**non-visual reference**) condition.

```html
<head>
	<title>Passed example 3 9bd38c</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../test-assets/9bd38c/columns.css" />
</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p>Find the menu on the right, to navigate</p>
		</div>
		<div class="col">
			<h1>Menu</h1>
			<ul>
				<li>
					<a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/contact">Contact</a>
				</li>
				<li>
					<a href="https://www.w3.org/Help/">Help and FAQ</a>
				</li>
			</ul>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 4

This text includes the [visual reference word][] "tilted" and identifies web content (namely itself). But the text also includes the word "this" which makes it apparent that the description is about the same content, thus matching the (**non-visual reference**) condition.

```html
<head>

> 	<title>Passed example 5 9bd38c</title>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	<title>Passed example 4 9bd38c</title>
```

	<style>
		div.tilt {
			height: 750px;
			width: 150px;
			-ms-transform: rotate(20deg); /* IE 9 */
			-webkit-transform: rotate(20deg); /* Safari 3-8 */
			transform: rotate(20deg);
		}
	</style>
</head>
<body>
	<div class="tilt">look at this pieCe of tiLted text fOr clueS on whEre to find The monster.</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 5

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "round". The button is identified by this word which is also included in the [visible text content][] of the element, thus matching the (**visible words**) condition.

```html
<head>

> 	<title>Passed example 6 9bd38c</title>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	<title>Passed example 5 9bd38c</title>
```

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "square" but in this case it is not identifying any [web content][], thus matching the (**no indication**) condition.

```html
<p>A square is a regular quadrilateral with four equal sides and four right angles.</p>
```

#### Passed Example 9

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "circle" but in this case it is not an instruction about any [web content][], thus matching the (**no instruction**) condition.

```html
<p>
	This circle is nice.
	<span
		style="height: 25px;
		     width: 25px;
		     background-color: #bbb;
		     border-radius: 50%;
		     display: inline-block;"
	>
	</span>
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 10

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "star" but there is also a heading "examples" that can be referenced, thus matching the (**non-visual references**) condition. The fact that the identified content is in an `iframe` does not restrict this rule.

```html
<p>More examples can be found when you look underneath the star or you can search for the "Examples" heading</p>
<iframe title="star" src="/test-assets/SC1.3.3-star-with-heading.html"></iframe>
```

#### Passed Example 11

> This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "right". The content in the second column is identified with the word "right" but also identified by referencing the word "howdy", thus matching the (**non-visual reference**) condition. Note that this example is applicable because, despite the fact that the text is not visible, it is included in the accessibility tree.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "right". The content in the second column is identified with the word "right" but also identified by referencing the word "howdy", thus matching the (**non-visual reference**) condition. Note that, despite the fact that the text is not visible, this example is applicable because it is included in the accessibility tree.
```

```html
<head>

> 	<title>Passed example 1 9bd38c</title>

Reviewer 3: Shouldn't this be 11?

```suggestion
	<title>Passed example 11 9bd38c</title>
```

	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../test-assets/9bd38c/columns.css" />
</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p style="position:absolute; top:-9999em">Click "howdy" on the right, for a surprise</p>
		</div>
		<div class="col">
			<button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Howdy</button>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 12

> This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "right". The content in the second column is identified with the word "right" but also identified by referencing the word "howdy", thus matching the (**non-visual reference**) condition. Note that this example is not inapplicable because, despite the fact that the text is not in the accessibility tree, it is visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "right". The content in the second column is identified with the word "right" but also identified by referencing the word "howdy", thus matching the (**non-visual reference**) condition. Note that, despite the fact that the text is not visible, this example is applicable because it is visible.
```

```html
<head>

> 	<title>Passed example 1 9bd38c</title>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
	<title>Passed example 12 9bd38c</title>
```

</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p aria-hidden="true">Click "howdy" on the right, for a surprise</p>
		</div>
		<div class="col">
			<button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Howdy</button>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 13

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "right". The user is told to find the navigation on the right and the navigation is also correctly identified by a `nav` element whose [accessible name][] contains the word "navigation", thus matching the (**non-visual reference**) condition.

```html
<head>
	<title>Passed example 13 9bd38c</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../test-assets/9bd38c/columns.css" />
</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p>Find the navigation on the right, for the non-essential links</p>
		</div>
		<nav>
			<div class="col">
				<ul>
					<li>
						<a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/contact">Contact</a>
					</li>
					<li>
						<a href="https://www.w3.org/Help/">Help and FAQ</a>
					</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</nav>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 14

> No [text node][] on this page include any of the [visual reference words][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
No [text node][] on this page includes any of the [visual reference words][].
```

		</div>
		<nav>
			<div class="col">
				<ul>
					<li>
						<a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/contact">Contact</a>
					</li>
					<li>
						<a href="https://www.w3.org/Help/">Help and FAQ</a>
					</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</nav>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Failed Example 3

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "triangle" (which is not included in the identified content) and no other indication is present so the rule fails. The fact that the triangle menu is on a different page of the same website does not restrict the rule.

```html
<body>
	<p>
		On the <a href="/test-assets/SC1.3.3-triangle-menu-without-heading.html">information page</a> you can find more
		examples within the triangle menu
	</p>
</body>
```

#### Failed Example 4

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "star" (which is not included in the identified content) and there is no other indication. The content described is in an `iframe`.

```html
<body>
	<p>More examples can be found when you look underneath the star</p>
	<iframe src="/test-assets/SC1.3.3-star-without-heading.html"></iframe>
</body>
```

### Inapplicable

#### Inapplicable Example 1

> The content is indicated with the word "box" (a visual reference word), but this indication is hidden and not included in the accessibility tree because it has 'display:none'.

Reviewer: The fact that there is a visual reference word in the text node is irrelevant to the applicability.

```suggestion
There is no text node that is visible or included in the accessibility tree because the `p` element has 'display:none'.
```

But, isn't "Howdy" in a text node, therefore making this a passed example?

- (**non-visual reference**) the test target identifies some [web content][] and is on the same [web page][] as a [textual][text] instruction that also identifies that [web content][] by a non-visual characteristic; or
- (**visible words**) the test target identifies some [web content][] and each [visual reference word][] in the test target is included in the [visible text content][] of the identified content; or
- (**accessible words**) the test target identifies some [web content][] and each [visual reference word][] in the test target is included in the [accessible name][] of the identified content; or
- (**no instruction**) the test target identifies some [web content][] but does not give instructions about it through the use of any of the [visual reference words][].

## Assumptions

- This rule assumes that [visual reference words][] are forms of information conveyed through presentation. Because of this, failing this rule fails both [Success Criterion 1.3.1 Info and Relationships][sc131] and [Success Criterion 1.3.3 Sensory Characteristics][sc133]. Presentation is not limited to CSS and includes images such as the image of a circle with text.

> - This rule assumes that non-visual users will interpret some visual reference words as meaning "ahead" or "backwards" in the reading order. For example in most contexts "see the content below" will mean ahead in the DOM tree reading order which is not a visual reference and should pass this test. Note, however, that the DOM tree reading order can be different from the visual order of things, which could result in "see the content below" only referring to the visual order of things in which case it is not a correct reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- This rule assumes that non-visual users will interpret some visual reference words as meaning "ahead" or "backwards" in the reading order. For example in most contexts "see the content below" will mean ahead in the DOM tree reading order which is not a visual reference and should pass this rule. Note, however, that the DOM tree reading order can be different from the visual order of things, which could result in "see the content below" only referring to the visual order of things in which case it is not a correct reference.
```

## Test Cases

### Passed

#### Passed Example 1

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "right". The content in the second column is identified with the word "right" but also identified by referencing the word "howdy", thus matching the (**non-visual reference**) condition.

```html
<head>
	<title>Passed example 1 9bd38c</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../test-assets/9bd38c/columns.css" />
</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p>Click "howdy" on the right, for a surprise</p>
		</div>
		<div class="col">
			<button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Howdy</button>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 2

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "box". The button is identified with the word "box" but also identified by referencing that the content can be found below this content in the DOM order. Note that "below" is also a visual reference word but in this case it can also be accurately interpreted as "further in the DOM tree order" which does not rely on visual attributes alone. Hence, the paragraph matches the (**non-visual reference**) condition.

```html

> <p>Interact with the box below this paragraph, for a surprise</p>

Author: Hey Adilofficial,

Thanks for the detailed reply.

The word "below" **is** a visual reference word, that is why it is included in the list of visual reference words. However in this case it can **also** be interpreted as referring to "further in the reading order". 

It is true that the example gives no definition of this term and that it might still be misunderstood by users. However the SC only asks us to not "rely solely on sensory characteristics" which we do not because in this case we are also relying on the DOM/reading order. The SC doesn't demand that this is explained with a definition.

This example would of course not be a best practice and we should never advise people to do this. But technically it would pass the SC, and such edge cases should be made clear by the rule. Would you agree with me that the example should pass the SC?

You are right however that this example would not currently pass this rule. I think the rule needs another expectation:

- (**word-is-used-non-visually**) the test target identifies some [web content][], but at least one of the visual reference words that identifies the web content is used in such a way that it can be correctly interpreted non-visually.

> <p>Interact with the box below this paragraph, for a surprise</p>

Reviewer 2: Thus said, I'm also considering whether this example is actually showing two things and should be split:
* "box" as a correct-ish word to describe a button, could be "click on the box after this paragraph" to show the same.
* "below" as a visual reference word with a non-visual reference meaning, could be "click on the button below" to show the same.

Also, for the **word is used non visually**, a less controversial example could be "click on the button right after this paragraph" where "right" is a visual reference word used to give indication, but not with a sensory meaning.

At the same time, I agree with @ShadowBB that our examples should rather show the corner cases for the sake of reproducibility and unification of tests results.

<button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Howdy</button>
```

#### Passed Example 3

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "right". The visual reference made by the word "right" is complemented by the non-visual reference made by the word "menu" to the content identified by the "Menu" heading, thus matching the (**non-visual reference**) condition.

```html
<head>
	<title>Passed example 3 9bd38c</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../test-assets/9bd38c/columns.css" />
</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">

> 			<p>Find the menu on the right, to navigate</p>

Reviewer 4: Actually from the screenreader perspective if we mention a more clear instruction it would be easy for them to navigate to the specific component such as headings. 
In addition, G96 [Example 2](https://www.w3.org/TR/2016/NOTE-WCAG20-TECHS-20161007/G96#G96-ex2) expressed an example in a similar way where "heading" is specifically used to make the instruction more clear and descriptive.

> 			<p>Find the menu on the right, to navigate</p>

Author: You are correct that adding more information would make it easier to navigate. However these examples should show the "bare minimum" to pass these SC to be most effective at making sure everybody evaluates in the same manner correct? Would you agree that "menu" is enough to pass the SC because it does not, technically speaking, "rely solely on sensory characteristics"?

> 			<p>Find the menu on the right, to navigate</p>

Reviewer 4: As being a minimum requirement, I don't have any objection with "menu".

```html
<p>
	On the <a href="/test-assets/SC1.3.3-triangle-menu-with-heading.html">information page</a> you can find more examples
	within the triangle menu.
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 7

This paragraph includes the [visual reference words][] "wide" and "narrow". The images are indicated by these words which are also included in the [accessible names][accessible name] of the images, thus matching the (**accessible words**) condition.

```html
<p>Look at the wide image which is awesome. Now compare it with the narrow image which isn't.</p>
<img scr="/test-assets/images/awesome_wide.jfif" alt="Wide photo of an awesome landscape." />
<img scr="/test-assets/images/Non_awesome_narrow.jpg" alt="Narrow photo of a dull landscape." />
```

#### Passed Example 8

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "square" but in this case it is not identifying any [web content][], thus matching the (**no indication**) condition.

```html
<p>A square is a regular quadrilateral with four equal sides and four right angles.</p>
```

> #### Passed Example 9

Reviewer 4: I don't think that would be a good solution 🤪 and make this example itself week. Isn't there any other solution?

> #### Passed Example 9

Author: I don't think this circle fails 1.1.1.

The circle only has an aesthetic purpose, doesn't provide any information nor functionality and therefore counts as "pure decoration" according to 1.1.1.

> #### Passed Example 9

Reviewer 4: Agree that the circle is already sufficiently described by the adjacent text.

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "circle" but in this case it is not an instruction about any [web content][], thus matching the (**no instruction**) condition.

```html
<p>
	This circle is nice.
	<span
		style="height: 25px;
		     width: 25px;
		     background-color: #bbb;
		     border-radius: 50%;
		     display: inline-block;"
	>
	</span>
</p>
```

#### Passed Example 10

> This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "star" but there is also a heading "examples" that can be referenced, thus matching the (**non-visual references**) condition. The fact that the identified content is in an `iframe` does not restrict this rule.

Reviewer 4: There is only "*" in <code>test-assets/SC1.3.3-star-with-heading.html</code> and <code>test-assets/SC1.3.3-star-without-heading.html</code> which is not a visual reference word "star". Should be updated accordingly. Otherwise this example will be considered as failed.

```html
<p>More examples can be found when you look underneath the star or you can search for the "Examples" heading</p>
<iframe title="star" src="/test-assets/SC1.3.3-star-with-heading.html"></iframe>
```

> #### Passed Example 11

Reviewer 4: So regardless of this, we are ignoring a group of users who have sighted users in this example.

> #### Passed Example 11

Author: Indeed we are. In fact, we are even ignoring a group of users with perfect vision. This is a flaw in WCAG and thus should be reflected by our rules I would say. Do you agree?

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "right". The content in the second column is identified with the word "right" but also identified by referencing the word "howdy", thus matching the (**non-visual reference**) condition. Note that, despite the fact that the text is not visible, this example is applicable because it is included in the accessibility tree.

```html
<head>
	<title>Passed example 11 9bd38c</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../test-assets/9bd38c/columns.css" />
</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p style="position:absolute; top:-9999em">Click "howdy" on the right, for a surprise</p>
		</div>
		<div class="col">
			<button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Howdy</button>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 12

> This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "right". The content in the second column is identified with the word "right" but also identified by referencing the word "howdy", thus matching the (**non-visual reference**) condition. Note that, despite the fact that the text is not visible, this example is applicable because it is visible.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "right". The content in the second column is identified with the word "right" but also identified by referencing the word "howdy", thus matching the (**non-visual reference**) condition. Note that, despite the fact that the text is not included in the accessibility tree, this example is applicable because it is visible.
```

		<div class="col">
			<p aria-hidden="true">Click "howdy" on the right, for a surprise</p>
		</div>
		<div class="col">
			<button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Howdy</button>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 13

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "right". The user is told to find the navigation on the right and the navigation is also correctly identified by a `nav` element whose [accessible name][] contains the word "navigation", thus matching the (**non-visual reference**) condition.

```html
<head>
	<title>Passed example 13 9bd38c</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../test-assets/9bd38c/columns.css" />
</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p>Find the navigation on the right, for the non-essential links</p>
		</div>
		<nav>
			<div class="col">
				<ul>
					<li>
						<a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/contact">Contact</a>
					</li>
					<li>
						<a href="https://www.w3.org/Help/">Help and FAQ</a>
					</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</nav>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 14

No [text node][] on this page includes any of the [visual reference words][].

```html

> <p>Click the button, for a surprise</p>

Reviewer 4: Although the page does not include any of the visual reference words it is an instructional statement and it failed 1.3.1 as there is an absence of a programmatic relationship between the instruction and the actual target. It doesn't fail the rule according to applicability and expectation but fails the related accessibility requirements that are 1.3.1.

Reviewer 4: But the question is which button? Although there is no text node in this paragraph that contain visual reference words but do you think the instructions in the paragraph are clear and descriptive enough? The user of the rule can use this as an example and just mention "Click the button" whereas he has several buttons on the page. 
I guess additional information should be provided that convey the relationship both programmatically and presentational:
```suggestion
<p>Click the button labelled "Howdy", for a surprise</p>
```

Author: Indeed. If the goal is to make a good website you should provide additional information on which button to press. But seeing as all users are hampered by this lack of conveyance of relationships, WCAG will not fail this example, nor should our rule. Do you agree?

<button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Howdy</button>
```

#### Passed Example 15

> The [text node][] inside the `p` element is not applicable because it is neither [visible][] nor [included in the accessibility tree][] due to its `display:none` styling. The [text node][] inside the `button` element does not includes any of the [visual reference words][].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [text node][] inside the `p` element is not applicable because it is neither [visible][] nor [included in the accessibility tree][] due to its `display:none` styling. The [text node][] inside the `button` element does not include any of the [visual reference words][].
```

> The [text node][] inside the `p` element is not applicable because it is neither [visible][] nor [included in the accessibility tree][] due to its `display:none` styling. The [text node][] inside the `button` element does not include any of the [visual reference words][].

Reviewer 4: Hence doesn't fulfill the applicability of this rule therefore shouldn't this example be in Inapplicable examples?

Reviewer 4: Please consider my comment from passed example 2 for this example.

Reviewer 2: I don't understand how that comment applies here. The discussion on Passed Example 2 is mostly on the use of "below" which is not present here.

In this example, the `p` element is hidden for all users. It effectively works as if it wasn't here:
```html
<button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Howdy</button>
```
This does not fail the rule because there isn't any visual reference word used.

We could definitely improve the text inside the `p`, but I think it would actually weaken the example.
```html
<p style="display:none">Click the button labelled "howdy", for a surprise</p>
<button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Howdy</button>
```
That would pass the rule whether the `display: none` is present or not. While in its current state, the example passes the rule **only** because `display: none` is here. I think that makes it a stronger example as it ensure that implementers are indeed ignoring hidden content.

```html
<head>
	<title>Failed example 1 9bd38c</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../test-assets/9bd38c/columns.css" />
</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p>Find the menu on the right, to navigate</p>
		</div>
		<div class="col">
			<ul>
				<li>
					<a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/contact">Contact</a>
				</li>
				<li>
					<a href="https://www.w3.org/Help/">Help and FAQ</a>
				</li>
			</ul>
		</div>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Failed Example 2

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "right". The user is told to find the navigation on the right and the navigation is correctly identified by a `nav` element, but there are 2 `nav` elements on the page so the user doesn't know which one to use (the non-visual reference is ambiguous and does not identify a specific [web content][]).

```html
<head>
	<title>Failed example 2 9bd38c</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../test-assets/9bd38c/columns.css" />
</head>
<body>
	<nav>
		<ul>
			<li>
				<a href="https://www.w3.org/">W3C homepage</a>
			</li>
			<li>
				<a href="https://www.w3.org/standards/">Standards</a>
			</li>
		</ul>
	</nav>

> 	<div class="col-container">

Reviewer 4: According to the reading order user know that I am instructed to find navigation that is visually on the right of the test target that is actually the instructed navigation is both visually and programmatically (right-handed navigation is under col-container then problem col etc) on the right side of the test target. How this example is failed according to the applicability and expectation of this rule? Can you please a bit more?

Reviewer 2: That's a bit of a question of whether "right" can be assumed to mean "further in reading order" or not.
This is a bit more controversial than "below" because there are many right-to-left scripts (I don't think there is any bottom-up script).
We can argue that English is left-to-right, so here "right" would mean "further in reading order", but we can also argue that non-native readers do not have that equivalence in mind and could be confused.

Moreover, in a independent columns layout like this one, I personally wouldn't understand that the column on the right is the sequel of the other. There is no real natural reading order between the text column and the menu column, so "right" might happen to be further in the DOM but I wouldn't undertand it as "further in reading order".

		<div class="col">
			<p>Find the navigation on the right, for the non-essential links</p>
		</div>
		<nav>
			<div class="col">
				<ul>
					<li>
						<a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/contact">Contact</a>
					</li>
					<li>
						<a href="https://www.w3.org/Help/">Help and FAQ</a>
					</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</nav>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Failed Example 3

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "triangle" (which is not included in the identified content) and no other indication is present so the rule fails. The fact that the triangle menu is on a different page of the same website does not restrict the rule.

```html
<body>
	<p>
		On the <a href="/test-assets/SC1.3.3-triangle-menu-without-heading.html">information page</a> you can find more

> 		examples within the triangle menu

Reviewer 4: It is actually passed as the instruction does not state that anything about the triangle menu is without headings or with headings. The instruction in the passed example 6 and failed example 3 example the link if we only consider the instructional text then it fails passed example 6 as it does not specify that triangle menu is with or without headings.
If the instruction is following than it failed the rule (you need to update the passed example 6 accordingly):
```suggestion
		examples within the heading 'Triangle Menu'
```
Then you can say that there is no such heading 'Triangle Menu' in the identified content.

Reviewer 2: There is a triangle menu in the content, it is identified with the ▲ symbol (a sensory characteristic, hence bad).
In Passed Example 6, the menu is identified with the "Triangle menu" text, a non-sensory characteristic (good).

	</p>
</body>
```

#### Failed Example 4

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "star" (which is not included in the identified content) and there is no other indication. The content described is in an `iframe`.

```html
<body>

> 	<p>More examples can be found when you look underneath the star</p>

Reviewer 4: Consider the previous comment from the failed example 3.
If the instruction is following than it failed the rule (you need to update the passed example 10 accordingly):
```suggestion
	<p>More examples can be found when you look underneath 'star' with the heading Examples</p>
```
Then you can say that there is no such heading 'star' in the identified content.
Consider the comment from example 10 about "star" and "*"

Reviewer 2: Same, the identified content has the ★ (was *) symbol, a sensory characteristic for a star.

accessibility_requirements:
  wcag20:1.3.1: # Info and Relationships (A)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
  wcag20:1.3.3: # Sensory Characteristics (A)
    forConformance: true
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
  wcag-technique:G96: # Providing textual identification of items that otherwise rely only on sensory information to be understood.
    forConformance: false
    failed: not satisfied
    passed: further testing needed
    inapplicable: further testing needed
input_aspects:
  - Accessibility Tree
  - CSS Styling
  - DOM Tree
  - Language
acknowledgments:
  authors:
    - Brian Bors
    - Daniël Strik
    - Jean-Yves Moyen
    - Wilco Fiers
---

## Applicability

This rule applies to any [text node][] that is either [visible][] or [included in the accessibility tree][].

## Expectation

For each test target that includes at least one of the [visual reference words][], one of the following is true:

> - (**no indication**) the test target does not identify any [web content][] through the use of any [visual reference words][]; or

Reviewer 2: Likely because this rings a bell with the way I use to number/name equations in mathematical texts. The bracket+bold is also a reminder in the running text that this refers to one of the condition (while bold could be used for emphasise in general).

> - (**no indication**) the test target does not identify any [web content][] through the use of any [visual reference words][]; or

Reviewer 2: Yes, that make sense. I tend to dislike the "except when" formulation, especially in long lists, since it's a negation and it's not always obvious how to parse it when mixed with conjunction/disjunction…

I'm also realising that the expectation does not really handle test targets that do not include any reference word…

How about:
> For each test target, either it contains no ref word, or it does not identify any content, or it does identify content through ref words and one of the following is true:

?

</p>
```

#### Passed Example 7

This paragraph includes the [visual reference words][] "wide" and "narrow". The images are indicated by these words which are also included in the [accessible names][accessible name] of the images, thus matching the (**accessible words**) condition.

```html
<p>The wide image is awesome. The narrow image isn't.</p>
<img
	scr="/test-assets/non-visual-reference-alternative-9bd38c/awesome_wide.jfif"
	alt="Wide photo of an awesome landscape."
/>
<img
	scr="/test-assets/non-visual-reference-alternative-9bd38c/non_awesome_narrow.jpg"
	alt="Narrow photo of a dull landscape."
/>
```

#### Passed Example 8

This paragraph includes the [visual reference words][] "square" and "right" but in this case they are not identifying any [web content][], thus matching the (**no indication**) condition.

```html
<p>A square is a regular quadrilateral with four equal sides and four right angles.</p>
```

#### Passed Example 9

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "circle" but in this case it is not an instruction about any [web content][], thus matching the (**no instruction**) condition.

```html
<p>

> 	This circle is nice.

Reviewer 5: Looks pretty dull to me ;-)

		</div>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 13

This paragraph includes the [visual reference word][] "right". The user is told to find the navigation on the right and the navigation is also correctly identified by a `nav` element whose [accessible name][] contains the word "navigation", thus matching the (**non-visual reference**) condition.

```html
<head>
	<title>Passed example 13 9bd38c</title>
	<link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="/test-assets/non-visual-reference-alternative-9bd38c/columns.css" />
</head>
<body>
	<div class="col-container">
		<div class="col">
			<p>Find the navigation on the right, for the non-essential links</p>
		</div>
		<nav>
			<div class="col">
				<ul>
					<li>
						<a href="https://www.w3.org/Consortium/contact">Contact</a>
					</li>
					<li>
						<a href="https://www.w3.org/Help/">Help and FAQ</a>
					</li>
				</ul>
			</div>
		</nav>
	</div>
</body>
```

#### Passed Example 14

No [text node][] on this page includes any of the [visual reference words][].

```html
<p>Click the button, for a surprise</p>
<button onclick="alert('Surprise!')">Howdy</button>
```

> #### Passed Example 15

Reviewer 5: Not sure this test cases is necessary. Not a blocker though.

Reviewer 2: That's the only example where the target does not include reference words.
OTOH, I agree that the non-visible part is misleading in that example. I'll try to improve it to focus on what it is supposed to show.

Reviewer 2: Actually not… Moved it to Inapplicable example to illustrate the visibility/included in accessibility tree part.

## Expectation

For each test target, either it contains none of the [visual reference words][], or it does not identify any [web content][] through the use of any [visual reference words][], or it does identify some [web content][] and at least one of the following is true:

- **non-visual reference**: the test target is on the same [web page][] as a [textual][text] instruction that also identifies that [web content][] without any [visual reference word][]; or

> - **non-sensory meaning**: at least one of the [visual reference words][] that identifies the [web content][] is used with a non-sensory meaning.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **non-sensory meaning**: at least one of the [visual reference words][] that identifies the [web content][] is used with a non-sensory meaning; or
```
